[DO NOT MERGE] Work-in-progress PWA reference content (#1429)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/offline.md

---
# Offline and network connectivity support in Progressive Web Apps

> For many years, organizations were reluctant to invest heavily in web-based software over native software, because web applications depended on stable network connections.  Today, the web platform offers robust options that enable users to continue working even if the network connection becomes unstable or goes offline.

Reviewer: The Progressive Web Apps (PWA) platform offers robust options that enable users to continue working even if the network connection becomes unstable or goes offline.
```

> For many years, organizations were reluctant to invest heavily in web-based software over native software, because web applications depended on stable network connections. The Progressive Web Apps (PWA) platform offers robust options that enable users to continue working even if the network connection becomes unstable or goes offline.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For many years, organizations were reluctant to invest heavily in web-based software over native software, because web applications depended on stable network connections. Today, the Progressive Web Apps (PWA) platform offers robust options that enable users to continue working even if the network connection becomes unstable or goes offline.
```
In my professional opinion, the back-and-forth between writers here has been highly effective in producing the best result, with input from each writer in turn, zig-zagging to the optimal result.

Reviewer 2: @captainbrosset @vchapel - In my professional opinion, the back-and-forth between writers here has been highly effective in producing the best result, with input from each writer in turn, zig-zagging to the optimal result.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Use caching to improve the performance of PWAs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use caching to improve PWA performance
```

});
```

> This code, which runs during the Service Worker `install` life cycle event, opens a cache named `static-cache`.  Then, when it has a pointer to the cache, it adds four resources to the cache by using the `addAll()` method.  Often this approach is coupled with cache retrieval during a `fetch` event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code runs during the Service Worker `install` life cycle event, and opens a cache named `static-cache`.  When it has a pointer to the cache, it adds four resources to the cache using the `addAll()` method.  This approach is often coupled with cache retrieval during a `fetch` event.
```

});
```

The code snippet runs within the Service Worker whenever the browser makes a `fetch` request for this site. Within that event, there is a conditional statement that runs if the request is for an HTML file. The Service Worker checks to see whether the file already exists in any cache, by using the `match()` method:

*  If the request exists in the cache, that cached result is returned.
*  If the request doesn't exist in the cache, a new `fetch` for that resource is run, a copy of the response is cached for later, and the response is returned.
   * If the `fetch` fails because the network is unavailable, the offline page is returned from the cache.

This simple introduction shows how to use caching in your progressive web app (PWA). Each PWA is different and may use different caching strategies. Your code may look different, and you can use different caching strategies for different routes within the same application.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Use IndexedDB in your PWA to store structured data

> `IndexedDB` is an API for storing structured data. Similar to the `Cache` API, it is also asynchronous, which means you can use it in the main thread or with Web Workers such as Service Workers.  Use the `IndexedDB` API for storing a significant amount of structured data on the client, or binary data, such as encrypted media objects.  See [MDN primer on using IndexedDB][MDNIndexeddbApiUsing].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`IndexedDB` is an API for storing structured data. Similar to the `Cache` API, it is also asynchronous. This means you can use it in the main thread, or with Web Workers such as Service Workers.  Use the `IndexedDB` API for storing a significant amount of structured data on the client, or binary data, such as encrypted media objects.  See [MDN primer on using IndexedDB][MDNIndexeddbApiUsing].
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Understand storage options for PWAs

Sometimes you might need to store small amounts of data in order to provide a better offline experience for your users. If that is the case, you might find that the simplicity of the key-value pair system of Web Storage meets your needs.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Web Storage is a synchronous process and is not available for use within worker threads such as Service Workers. Heavy usage may create performance issues for your application.

> There are 2 types of Web Storage: `localStorage` and `sessionStorage`. Each type of Web Storage is maintained as a separate data store isolated to the domain that created it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two types of Web Storage: `localStorage` and `sessionStorage`. Each type of Web Storage is maintained as a separate data store isolated to the domain that created it.
```
